Baahubali: The Beginning, also known as BB1,[5] is an Indian dramatic-action film directed by S. S. Rajamouli. The film was produced by Shobu Yarlagadda and Prasad Devineni and was shot in Telugu and Tamil. The film stars Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Anushka Shetty, and Tamannaah in the lead roles, with Ramya Krishnan, Sathyaraj, and Nassar in supporting roles. The first of two cinematic parts, the film follows Shivudu, an adventurous young man who helps his love, a rebellious warrior intending to rescue the former queen of Mahishmati. In the process, he learns of his true identity as the heir to the throne of Mahishmati, the son of Amarendra Baahubali, whose tale is narrated to him by Kattappa, a loyal slave. When asked about Amarendra's whereabouts, the slave reveals that he was the one who killed him. The reason behind this is explained in the follow-up Baahubali 2: The Conclusion.
The film was conceived by Rajamouli's father K. V. Vijayendra Prasad, who randomly told him a story about Sivagami, a woman who carries a baby in her hand while crossing a river, and a few years later about Kattappa, which intrigued Rajamouli. His fascination with mythology and the tales of Amar Chitra Katha comics further fueled his interest in the story. However, it took the writers three months to finalise the final draft.
ss rajamouli.
Koduri Srisaila Sri Rajamouli (born October 10, 1973), known professionally as 
S. S. Rajamouli and also by the name "Jakkanna",[2] is an Indian film director and screenwriter,
 known for his works primarily in Telugu cinema. He is known for directing high-budget feature films like Magadheera (2009),
 Eega (2012), the two part Baahubali: The Beginning (2015) premiered at the Brussels International Fantastic Film Festival 
 and Baahubali 2: The Conclusion (2017), premiered at the British Film Institute,
 [3][4] while becoming the highest grossing Indian multilingual film franchise of all time globally, 
 with a cumulative box office earnings of approximately ₹1,900 crore (US$300 million).[5][6][7][8] 
 The first part of the Telugu film has received the National Film Award for Best Feature Film,
 and got nominated for Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film by the American Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films.[9]

